---
layout: post
title: Irssi and Growl Notifications
---

{{ page.title }}
===============

I recently decided to use something else for my IRC client. I was using Adium, but I don't like having so many applications open at once (it's the whole cmd-tab/my-dock-is-huge-and-I-don't-like-it thing).

Honestly, if I could, I'd only have my terminal and MacVim open at any given time. Not possible though. Sadly. Back to the topic at hand though.

I started using Irssi as my IRC client on Monday of this week (it's now Wednesday). All I have to say is I'll never go back :)

The biggest thing missing from Irssi was my growl notifications. I did a quick google search for growl notification scripts for Irssi and came across a few. One in particular was designed to capture private messages and mentions from chat rooms and send them across a network. That's not quite what I wanted, but I could work with it. The script was saving all messages to a file. All I did was take out all references to the file saving and replace that with growl notifications (using growlnotify).

Here's the current script:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/1245924.js?file=growlme.pl"></script>
One known problem with this script is if someone sends a message that contains a ', the script blows up. I'll be fixing that shortly.

<hr />
<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
    var disqus_shortname = 'narshlob';
    var disqus_identifier = 'irssi-and-growl-notifications';
    var disqus_url = 'http://narshlob.github.com/2011/09/28/irssi-and-growl-notifications.html';

    (function() {
        var dsq = document.createElement('script'); dsq.type = 'text/javascript'; dsq.async = true;
        dsq.src = 'http://' + disqus_shortname + '.disqus.com/embed.js';
        (document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]).appendChild(dsq);
    })();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>
<a href="http://disqus.com" class="dsq-brlink">blog comments powered by <span class="logo-disqus">Disqus</span></a>
